#vr #phd #glaucoma #path_integration #navigation

# Abstract for the Francie's Study

*First Draft* :

Navigation is essential in our daily life to move from one location to another. During navigation, it's also important for us to avoid obstacles and move in a secure path. In that regard, performance of path integration has a role. Path integration performance is affected several cues, one of which is visual cue. In our study, we investigated the path integration performance of glaucoma patients during a path integration task in virtual reality environment. We also investigated the effect of optic flow during the task. At the end of the navigation task, participants completed a pointing task to locate their starting position of the path. We found that glaucoma patients completed the navigation task slower than control group. Moreover, it takes time for glaucoma patients to give an answer for the pointing task. Participants also spent much time when there is an optic flow in the environment during navigation and pointing task. When it comes to distance error of the pointing task, however, there is an interaction between group and optic flow. Glaucoma patients pointed closer location to their first starting point when they completed the task in an environment where there is an optic flow but that's not the case for control group. We did not find any difference in angle error between groups. These results suggest that glaucoma patients are cautious during navigation and they rely on optic flow cues more than control group in path integration. 

	Some results have changed



*Second Draft* :

Navigation is essential in our daily life to move from one location to another. During navigation, it is also important for us to avoid obstacles and move in a secure path and at the same time know where we are. In that regard, performance of path integration has a role. Path integration performance is affected several cues, one of which is visual cue. In our study, we investigated the path integration performance of glaucoma patients during a path integration task in environments with and without optic flow in virtual reality. At the end of the task, participants completed a pointing task to locate their starting position of the path. We found that glaucoma patients move slower than controls. Moreover, they responded slower for pointing task. Participants spent more time in the environment with optic flow. However, interestingly, glaucoma group has similar performance with control group in pointing task. Both groups benefit from optic flow to improve their performances. These results suggest that functional vision capacities affect the time required for the task to be completed. That means people with visual impairment need more time to complete a task. Task performances are similar with normal people but as severity of visual disease increases, there is an indication of performance loss. Moreover, they feel insecure during movement task, which means it affects their quality of life.
