


# Results Template

The normality check was done by applying the Shapiro-Wilk Test. Either t-tests or Mann-Whitney tests were conducted for cross-modal comparisons between gruops, and effect sizes of these tests were also reported as a d value and U[%], which represented the probability percentage of non-overlap btw two dist.s. Corrs btw measures were calculated using Spearman's coefficient ($r_s$) and the 95% CI fo the coefficient calculated using a bootstrapping method. The variances explained bt the correlations ($r_s^2$) were also calculated and reported. Receiver operating characteristics analyses were conducted using R to calculate area under curve (AUC) to discriminate btw controls and glaucoma. Pairwise comparisons of all measures' AUCs were assessed to check for any significant difference btw them. p-values were corrected for multiple testing with adjusted a-levels ($p_a$) using Bonferroni-Holm correction where applicable.


It's better to report with effect sizes.



### Statistics

To analyze the data, R programming language was used. To conduct normality checks with Shapiro-Wilk test and other statistical analyses, rstatix package was imported. There are three main statistical analyses, mixed ANOVAs, conducted. As for independent variables, we have group variable as between subject variable, and optic flow variable as within subject variable. Interaction between those two variables was also considered. The dependent variables for these analyses are travel time, pointing task time and, distance error in the pointing task. Travel time is defined as the time that takes for a participant to complete a trajectory by walking in one trial, excluding the time required for the participant to find the next waypoint. Pointing task time refers the duration started from the time of reaching at the final waypoint and ended at the time at which the participant gives response to point the first waypoint location. Finally, distance error is defined as the Euclidian distance between the first waypoint location and the response location that a participant gave in the virtual environment. 

#### Travel Time

Mixed ANOVA shows that there is a main effect of group, $F(1,27) = 12.18,\ p = 0.002$, and a main effect of optic flow, $F(1,27) = 5.24,\  p = 0.030$. Glaucoma group ($\mu = 28.4,\  \sigma = 7.77$) is slower than control group ($\mu = 20.3,\  \sigma = 4.50$) and, participants move slower in the environment with optic flow ($\mu = 24.7, \ \sigma = 7.94$) than without optic flow ($\mu = 23.8,\ \sigma = 7.07$). There isn't any interaction between optic flow and group, $F(1,27) = 2.11,\ p = 0.158$.

#### Pointing Task Time

When it comes to pointing task time analysis, we have same significance results in the same direction as in travel time. Mixed ANOVA shows that there is a main effect of group, $F(1,27) = 6.67,\  p = 0.015$, and a main effect of flow $F(1,27) = 23.20,\  p < 0.001$. Glaucoma group ($\mu = 16.9,\ \sigma = 7.66$) gives response slower than control group ($\mu = 11.6,\ \sigma = 3.90$). Moreover, participants give responses slower in the environment with optic flow ($\mu = 15.9,\ \sigma = 6.84$) than without optic flow ($\mu = 12.5,\ \sigma = 5.84$). There isn't any intereaction between optic flow and group, $F(1,27) = 0.31,\  p = 0.580$, as in travel time analysis.

### Distance Error

In the distance error analysis, we expected to find a significant difference between groups. However, Mixed ANOVA shows that there isn't a main effect of group, $F(1,27) = 2.94,\ p=0.097$ but only a main effect of optic flow, $F(1,27) = 8.53,\ p = 0.007$. Glaucoma patients ($\mu=4.26,\ \sigma=2.52$) and controls ($\mu = 3.05,\ \sigma = 1.15$) have similar performances. They perform better in the environment with optic flow ($\mu=3.40,\ \sigma=1.69$) than the one without optic flow ($\mu = 3.87,\ \sigma = 1.69$). As in the other analyses, there isn't any interaction between optic flow and group, $F(1,27) = 2.78,\ p = 0.107$.