---
date: 2021-03-07T02:13
---

# Journal Notes

For virtual reality part,

"The field of virtual reality (VR) has opened up many new horizons. A human viewer can be equipped with a display headset that allows her to see separate images with her right eye and her left eye so that she has the effect of stereoscopic vision. In addition, her body location and position, possibly including her head and finger positions, are tracked by the computer. She may have other interactive devices available, including force-sensing gloves and sound. She can then act as part of a computer generated scene, limited only by the image-generation ability of the computer."


For computer simulation part,

"Our interaction with computers has become dominated by a visual paradigm that includes windows, icons, menus, and a pointing device, such as a mouse."

"The most common input devices are the mouse, the joystick, and the data tablet. Each provides positional information to the system, and each usually is equipped with one or more buttons to provide signals to the processor. Often called pointing devices, these devices allow a user to indicate a particular location on the display."

"We live in a world of three-dimensional objects. The development of many branches
of mathematics, including geometry and trigonometry, was in response to the desire
to systematize conceptually simple ideas, such as the measurement of size of
objects and distance between objects. Often, we seek to represent our understanding
of such spatial relationships with pictures or images, such as maps, paintings,
and photographs. Likewise, the development of many physical devices—including
cameras, microscopes, and telescopes—was tied to the desire to visualize spatial relationships
among objects. Hence, there always has been a fundamental link between
the physics and the mathematics of image formation—one that we can exploit in our
development of computer image formation."

"Two basic entities must be part of any image-formation process, be it mathematical
or physical: object and viewer. The object exists in space independent of any
image-formation process and of any viewer."

"Every imaging system must provide a means of forming images from objects.
To form an image, we must have someone or something that is viewing our objects,
be it a human, a camera, or a digitizer. It is the viewer that forms the image of our
objects."

"The human visual system does not
have the same response to a monochromatic (single-frequency) red light as to a
monochromatic green light. If these two lights were to emit the same energy, they
would appear to us to have different brightness, because of the unequal response
of the cones to red and green light. We are most sensitive to green light, and least
sensitive to red and blue."

"The human retina
has a limited size corresponding to an approximately 90-degree field of view. Cameras
have film of limited size, and we can adjust their fields of view by selecting different
lenses."

from Interactive Computer Graphics 6th Edition, 2012
