#programlama #programming 

## Dead Programs Tell No Lies

All errors give you information. You could convince yourself that the error can't happen, and choose to ignore it. Instead, Pragmatic Programmers tell themselves that if there is an error, something very, very bad has happened. Don't forget to Read the Damn Error Message!

	Crash Early!

### Crash, Don't Trash

One of the benefits of detecting problems as soon as you can is that you can crash earlier, and crashing is often the best thing you can do. The alternative may be to continue, writing corrupted data to some vital database or commanding the washing machine into its twentieth consecutive spin cycle. Generally, programs are designed to fail, but that failure is managed with *supervisors*. A supervisor is responsible for running code and knows what to do in case the code fails, which could include cleaning up after it, restarting it, and so on. However, the basic principle stays the same -- when your code discovers that something that was supposed to be impossible just happened, your program is no longer viable. Anything it does from this point forward becomes suspect, so terminate it as soon as possible.

A dead program normally does a lot less damage than a crippled one.

## Assertive Programming

*There is a luxury in self-reproach. When we blame ourselves we feel no one else has a right to blame us. -- Oswar Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray*

Not practice any kind of self-deception related to programming when it comes to think about impossiblity of events. In this world, anything can happen, be ready for it.

	Use Assertions to Prevent the Impossible

Don't use assertions in place of real error handling. Assertions check for things that should never happen. Moreover, assertions are not a debugging facility. Turning off assertions when you deliver a program to production is like crossing a high wire without a net because you once made it across in practice. Even if you do have performance issues, turn off only those assertions that really hit you. 


## How to Balance Resources

*To light a candle is to cast a shadow -- Ursula K. Le Guin, A Wizard of Earthsea*

Many developers have no consistent plan for dealing with resource allocation and deallocation. So keep in your mind a simple tip:

	Finish What You start

The *finish what you start* tip tells you that, ideally, the routine that allocates a resource should also free it.

	Act Locally

### When You Can't Balance Resources

There are times when the basic resource allocation pattern just isn't appropriate. Commonly this is found in programs that use dynamic data structures. One routine will allocate an area of memory and link it into some larger structure, where it may stay for some time.

The trick here is to establish a semantic invariant for memory location. There are several ways of doing that but the main thing is that you need ot make it explicit for each data structure deallocation, and implement your decision **consistently**.

## Don't Outrun Your Headlights

*It's tough to make predictions, especially about the future. -- Lawrence "Yogi" Berra*

In software development, your "headlights" are limited. You can't see too far ahead into the future, and the further off-axis you look, the darker it gets. So Pragmmatic Programmers have a firm rule:

	Take Small Steps -- Always.

Always take small, deliberate steps, checking for feedback and adjusting before proceeding. Consider that the rate of feedback is your speed limit. You never take on a step or a task that's "too big". What's a task that's too big? Any task requires "fortune telling". You can only see into the future perhaps one or two steps, maybe a few hours or days at most. Beyond that, you can quickly get past *educated guess* and into *wild speculation*. You might find yourself splitting into fortune telling. The more you have to predict what the future will look like, the more risk you incur that you'll be wrong. Make it easy to throw our your code and replace it with something better suited. Making code replaceable will also help with cohesion, coupling, decoupling, and DRY, leading to a better design overall.

	Avoid Fortune-Telling.

# Bend, or Break 

Practical applications still stand here but life doesn't stand still. Neither cand the code that you write. In order to keep up with today's near-frantic pace of change, you need ot make every effort to write code that's as loose --as flexible-- as possible. Otherwise, you may find your code quickly becoming outdated, or too brittle to fix, and may ultimately be left behind in the mad dash toward the future.

## Decoupling

*When we try to pick out anything by itself, we find it hitched to everything else in the Universe. -- John Muir, My First Summer in the Sierra*

Coupling is the enemy of change, because it links together things that must change in parallel. This makes change more difficult: either you spend time tracking down all the parts that need changing, or you spend time wondering why things broke when you changed "just one thing" and not the other things to which it was coupled.

When you're designing software that you'll want to change, you want it to be flexible. To be flexible, individual components should be coupled to as few other components as possible.

	Docoupled Code is Easier to Change

Coupling can occur just about any time two pieces of code share something, so as you read what follows keep an eye out for the underlyling patterns, train wrecks -- chains of method calls, globalization -- the dangers of static things, inheritance -- why subclassing is dangerous, so you can apply them to *your* code. And keep a lookout for some of the symptoms of coupling:

* Wacky dependencies between unrelated modules or libraries.
* "Simple" changes to one module that propagate through unrelated modules in the system or break stuff elsewhere in the system.
* Developers who are afraid to change code because they aren't sure what might be affected.
* Meeting where everyone has to attend because no one is sure who will be affected by a change.

### Train Wrecks

```java
public void applyDiscount(customer, order_id, discount) {
	totals = customer
			 .orders
			 .find(order_id)
			 .getTotals();
	totals.grandTotal = totals.grandTotal - discount;
	totals.discount = discount;
}
```

This chunk of code is traversing five levels of abstraction, from customer to total amounts. Ultimately top-level code has to know that a customer object exposes orders, that the orders have a **find** method that takes an order id and returns an order, and that the order object has a **totals** object which has getters and setters fro grand totals and discounts. That's a lot of implicit knowledge. All the cars in a train are coupled together, as are all the methods and attributes in a train wreck.

The fix for that kind of code is to apply something called:

	Tell, Don't Ask


This principle says that you shouldn't make decisions based on the internal state of an object and then update that object. Doing so totally destroys the benefits of encapsulation and, in doing so, spreads the knowledge of the implementation throughout the code. So the first fix for the train wreck is to delegate the function to the total object.

```java
public void applyDiscount(customer, order_id, discount) {
	customer
		.orders. // how do I know that? So, change again!
		.find(order_id)
		.getTotals()
		.applyDiscount(discount);
}

public void applyDiscount(customer, order_id, discount) {
	customer
		.findOrder(order_id)
		.getTotals() // don't need again, internalize some of the function!
		.applyDiscount(discount);
		
}

public void applyDiscount(customer, order_id, discount) {
	customer
		.findOrder(order_id)
		.applyDiscount(discount);
}
```

TDA (Tell, Don't Ask) is not a law of nature; it's just a pattern to help us recognize problems. In this case, we're comfortable exposing the fact that a customer has orders, and that we can find one of those roders by asking the customer object for it. This is a pragmatic decision.

	Don't Chain Method Calls

Try not to have more than one chain call when you access something. *Access something* also covers cases where you use intermediate variables, as in the following code:

```python
# This is pretty poor style
amount = customer.orders.last().totals().amount

# and so is this
orders = customer.orders
last = orders.last()
totals = last.totals()
amount = totals.amount
```

There's a big exception to the one-dot-rule: the rule doesn't apply if the things you're chaining are really, really unlikely to change. In practice, anything is your application should be considered likely to change. 

Pipeline that transforms data, passing it from one function to the next are is not considered as a train wreck of method calls, as you are not relying on hidden implementation details. That's not to say that pipelines don't introduce some coupling; they do. The format of the data returned by one function in a pipeline must be compatible with the format accepted by the next.

### The Evils of Globalization

Globally accessible data is an insidious source of coupling between application components. Globals couple code for many reasons. The most obvious is that a change to the implementation of the global potentially affects all the code in the system. In practice, of course, the impact is fairly limited; the problem really comes down to knowing that you've found every place you need to change. Global data also creates coupling when it comes to teasing your code apart. 

	Avoid Global Data -- Remember your Unity project!

The solution is to make sure you always wrap your external resources and data behind code that you control. So,

	If It's Important Enough to Be Global, Wrap It in an API -- Singleton?


### Again, It's All About Change

Coupled code is hard to change. Alterations in one place can have secondary effects elsewhere in the code, and often in hard-to-find places that only come to light a month later in production. Keeping your code shy: having it only deal with things it directly knows about, will help keep your applications decoupled, and that will make them more amenable to change.


[[2022-08-12]]