##programlama #programming 

## Power Editing

Right now, you are so stubborn to use a single editor for everything: code, documentation, memos, system administration, and so on. You should quit doing that and soften so that you start using other editors and tools as well. If tools help you work fluency, then go with it!

	Achieve Editor Fluency

Over the course of a year, you could get additional week if you make your editing just 4% more efficient and you edit for 20 hours a week. However, the real benefit is that by becoming fluent, you no longer have to think about the mechanics of editing. The distance between thinking something and having it appear in an editor buffer drop way down. Your thoughts will flow, and your programming will benefit.

Fluency means:
* When editing text, move and make selections by chcracter, word, line and paragraph.
* When editing code, move by various syntactic units (matching delimiters, functions, modules, ...)
* Reindent code following changes.
* Comment and uncomment blocks of code with a single command.
* Undo and redo changes.
* Split the editor window into multiple panels, and navigate between them.
* Navigate to a particular line number.
* Sort selected lines.
* Search for both strings and regular expressions, and repeat previous searches.
* Temporarily create multiple cursors based on a selection or on a pattern match, and edit the text at each in parallel.
* Display compilation errors in the current project.
* Run the current project's tests.


If you can do all this without using a mouse/trackpad, that means, you're getting fluency in these tasks. So learn the commands that make your life easier.

### Moving Towards Fluency

The recipe to learn is fairly simple. First, look at yourself while you're editing. Every time you find yourself doing something repetitive, get into the habit of thinking "there must be a better way." Then find it. In order to find it, you should spare some time for yourself during the project to check out and learn the commands. After discovering a new, useful feature, you now need to get it installed into your muscle memory, so you can use it without thinking. The only way we know to do that is through repetition. Consciously look for opportunities to use your new superpower, ideally many times a day. After a week or wo, you'll find you use it without thinking.

### Growing Your Editor

When you bump into some apparent limitation of the editor you're using, search around for an extension that will do the job. The chances are that you are not alone in needing that capability, and if you're lucky someone else will have published their solution. Take this a step further. Work out how to use editor's extension language to automate some of the repetitive things you do. Often you'll just need a line or two of code. If you need something to be done with an extension, there may be other people as well. After writing your extension, be sure to publish it!

As a challenge, look for integrations and if you cannot fine one, write one extension for you! 


## Version Control

*Progress, far from consisting in change, depends on retentiveness. Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat it. -- George Santayama, Life of Reason*

Version control systems keep track of every change you make in your source code and documentation. With a properly configured source code control system, *you can always go back to a previous version of your software.*

What you can do with the version control system is the following:

* Undoing mistakes
* Letting you track changes
* Blaming someone about the changes in the project
* Finding the difference between versions of the code
* Learning change frequency of the files
* Release identification
* Maintaining the files in a central repository
* Working concurrently on the same set of files.



So, in order to have these advantages over any kind of plain text that you deal even if you are alone

	Always Use Version Control

It should be your habit. Routinely use version control on just everything you type. Even if you're not working on a project, your day-day work is secured in a repository.

### Branching Out

One biggest benefit of branching is the isolation that it gives you. If you develop feature A in one branch, and a teammate works on feature B in another, you're not going to interfere with each other. Another benefit is that it shows different workflows. When you bump into workflow issues, search for possible solutions in the branches. Remember to review and adjust what you're doing as you gain experience.


## Debugging

*It is a painful thing to look at your own trouble and know that you yourself and no one else has made it. -- Sophocles, Ajax*

No one writes perfect software, so it's a given that debugging will take up a major portion of you day. Let's look at some of the issues involved in debugging and some general strategies for finding elusive bugs.

### Psy of Debugging

Debugging is a sensitive subject, even if you write the code all alone. It's not easy to blame yourself after feeling that you did it perfectly. Instead of trying to solve it as a puzzle, you may encounter denial, finger pointing to yourself, lame excuses, or just plain apathy. Instead, embrace the fact that debugging is just *problem solving*, and attack it as such.

	Fix the Problem, Not the Blame


### Debugging Mindset

You should turn off many of the defenses you use each day to protect your ego, tune out any project pressures you may be under, and get yourself comfortable. Above all,

	Don't Panic!

It is very important to step back a pace, and actually *think* about what could be causing the symptoms that you believe indicate a bug. Don't waste a single neuron on the train of thought that begins "but that can't happen" because quite clearly it *can*, and has.

Always try to discover the root cause of a problem, not just a particular appearance of it.

### Where to Start

When trying to solve any problem, you need to gather all the relevant data. However, that's not the case when dealing with bugs. It's easy to be misled by coincidences, and you can't afford to waste time debugging coincidences. You first need to be accurate in your observations. Second, you should have a good communication with everyone who encounter a problem that shows you the bug. You may need to interview the user who reported the bug in order to gather more data than you were initially given. Artificial tests don't exercise enough of an application. You must brutally test both boundary conditions and realistic end-user usage patterns. You need to do this systematically.

### Debugging Strategies

The best way to start fixing a bug is to make it reproducible. After all, if you can't reproduce it, how will you know if it is ever fixed? 

	Failing Test Before Fixing Code

First, look at the program and then

	Read the Damn Error Message!


Sometimes, it's not easy to find the bug unless you have some data to test it. When the program crashes with a particular dataset, get a copy of the dataset and feed it through a locally running copy of the app, making sure it still crashes. Then binary chop the data until you isolate exactly which input values are leading to the crash. Sometimes, one feature is perfectly working but a bug pops up in the code after some time. To deal with such things, you also do binary chop.

#### The Binary Chop

Binary chop is actually a binary search applied in real life. When you're facing a massive stacktrace and you're trying to find out exactly which function mangled the value in error, you do a chop by choosing a stack frame somewhere in the middle and seeing if the error is manifest there. If it is, then you know to focus on the frames before, otherwise the problem is in the frames after. If you find bugs that appear on certain datasets, you might be able to do the same thing. Split the dataset into two, and see if the problem occurs if you feed one or the other through the app. If a bug is introduced during a set of releases, you can also do the same. Create a test that causes the current release to fail. Then choose a half-way release between now and the last known working version. Run the test again, and decide how to narrow your search. Being able to do this is just one of the many benefits of having good version control in your projects. Indeed, many VCSs will take this further and will automate the process, picking releases for you depending on the result of the test.

#### Logging and/or Tracing

*Tracing statements* are the one that you do know perfectly but haven't heard the term before. They are those little diagnostic messages you print to the screen or to a file that say things such as "gottcha" and "bacin yok". Primitive but a useful technique that shows several classes of errors that any debugger cannot show you. Tracing is invaluable in any system where time itself is a factor: concurrent processes, real-time systems, and event-based applications.


#### Rubber Ducking

It sounds simple, but in explaining the problem to another person you must explicitly state things that may take for granted when going through the code yourself. By having to verbalize some of these assumptions, you may suddenly gain new insight into the problem. And if you don't have a person, a rubber duck, also will do.

#### Process of Elimination

Instead of blaming the system first, start from yourself. You can use the phrase "select is broken" as gentle reminder whenever someone starts blaming the system for a fault that is likely to be their own.

	"select" isn't Broken.

The world is constantly changing and you need to keep track of it in order to maintain your project and prevent the project having a new bug. Even though it's inevitable, knowing these change help you to figure out the problem easily. So keep a close eye on the schedule when considering an upgrade; you may want to wait until *after* the next release.

#### The Element of Surprise (The Law of Surprise)

The amount of surprise you feel when something goes wrong is proportional to the amount of trust and faith you have in the code being run. That's why, when faced with a "surprising" failure, you must accept that one or more of your assumptions is wrong. Don't gloss over a routine or piece of code involced in the bug because  you "know" it works. Prove it. Prove it in *this* context, with *this* data, with *these* boundary conditions.

	Don't assume it -- Prove it.

If it took a long time to fix a bug, ask yourself why. Is there anything you can do to make fixing the bug easier the next time around? Perhaps you could build in better testing hooks, or write a log file analyzer.

#### Debugging Checklist

* Is the problem being reported a direct result of the underlying bug, or merely a symptom?
* Is the bug *really* in the framework you're using? Is it in the OS? Or is it in your code?
* If you explained this problem in detail to a coworker, what would you say?
* If the suspect code passes its unit tests, are the tests complete enough? What happens if you run the tests with *this* data?
* Do the conditions caused this bug exist anywhere else in the system? Are there other bugs still in the larval stage, just waiting to hatch?

Don't forget that debugging is itself a challenge enough.


## Text Manipulation

Having a tool in your hand that you master in every way when it comes to text manipulation is a very productive move because what you're dealing is generally is the plain text itself. You may find that tool as a command or as a programming language. Learning of them help you easily manipulate text. You don't spend so much time after having one in hand.

	Learn a Text Manipulation Language (awk, sed, Python, Ruby, ...)


## Engineering Daybooks

The daybook is a kind of journal not in a way of journal but in a way in which you record what you do, things you learn, sketch ideas, read from meters. Basically, it's the recording of anything to do with your work.

The daybook has three main benefits:

* It is more reliable than memory. People might ask "What was the name of that company you called last week about the power supply problem?" and you can flip back a page or so and give them the name and number. 
* It gives you a place to store ideas that aren't immediately relevent to the task at hand. Thay way you can continue to concentrate on what you are doing, knowing that the great idea won't be forgotten.
* It acts as a kind of rubber duck. When you stop to write something down, your brain may switch gears, almost as if talking to someone -- a great chance to reflect. You may start to make a note and then suddenly realize that what you'd just done, the topic fo the note, is just plain wrong.


	So, try keeping an engineering daybook. Use paper, not a file or a wiki: there's something special about the act of writing compared to typing. Give it a month, and see if you're getting any benefits. If nothing else, it'll make writing your memoir easier.


Don't forget that all software becomes legacy software as soon as it's written.


[[2022-08-11]]



# Pragmatic Paranoia

	You can't Write Perfect Software

Accept it as an axiom of life. Embrace it. Celebrate it. Because perfect software doesn't exist. Unless you accept this as a fact, you'll end up wasting time and energy chasing an impossible dream.

Generally you are cautious when dealing with other people. You try to be sure about anything that comes to you and check their validity. When you code, you don't trust yourself either. Knowing that no one writes perfect code, including yourself, you can build in defenses against your own mistakes.

## Design by Contract

*Nothing astonishes men so much as common sense and plain dealing. -- Ralph Waldo Emerson, Essays*

Dealing with computer systems is hard. Dealing with people is even harder. That's why one of the best solutions for ensuring plain dealing is the *contract*.

A contract defines your rights and responsibilities, as well as those of the other party. In addition, there is an agreement concerning repercussions if either party fails to abide by the contract.

For *Design by Contract*, expectations and claims are described as follows :

**Preconditions** : What must be true in order for routine to be called; the routine's requirements. A routine should never get called when its preconditions would be violated. It is caller's responsibility to pass good data.

**Postconditions** : What the routine is guaranteed to do; the state of the world when the routine is done. The fact that the routine has a postcondition implies that it *will* conclude: infinite loops aren't allowed.

**Class Invariants** : A class ensures that this condition is always true from the perspective of a caller. During internal processing of a routine, the invariant may not hold, but by the time the routine exists and control returns to the caller, the invariant must be true.

So the contract can thus be read as if all the routine's preconditions are met by the caller, the routine shall guarantee that all postconditions and invariants will be true when it completes.

	Design by Contracts




