#programlama #programming 

## Coconuts Don't Cut It

A cargo cult is an indigenist millenarian belief system, in which adherents perform rituals which they believe will cause a more tehnologically advanced society to deliver goods. This is defined by anthropologists. When you build something using some tools, you should not expect to work it out immediately. You may imitate the form but not the content. The reality is that it's easy and tempting to fall into cargo cult trap: by investing in and building up the easily-visible artifacts, you hope to attract the underlying, working magic but context is what matters.

	Do What Works, Not What's Fashionable

How do you know "what works"? You don't know it unless you try it. You may change it after some time but doing something different is the key to the success. One size fits no one well. What you need is the ability to see beyond the existing rules and exploit possibilities for advantage. Instead, you want to take the best pieces from any particular methodology and adapt them for use. Remember that at any time current methods are far from complete, so you'll need to look at more than just one popular method.

The goal is to be in a position to deliver working software that gives the users some new capability at a moment's notice.

	Deliver When Users Need It

Once your infrastructure is in order, you need to decide how to organize the work. Beginners might want to start with Scrum for project management, plus the technical practices from eXtreme Programming (XP). More disciplined and experienced teams might look to Kanban and Lean techniques, both for the team and perhaps for larger governance issues. Be careful, though, in overdoing it.

## Pragmatic Starter Kit

*Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations we can perfom without thinking. -- Alfred North Whitehead*

You want to ensure consistency and repeatability on the project. So, most basic tools to ensure these features in programming is called *Pragmatic Starter Kit*:

* Version Control
* Regression Testing
* Full Automation

These are three legs that support every project.

	Use Version Control to Drive Builds, Tests and Releases
	Test Early, Test Often, Test Automatically
	Coding Ain't Done 'Til All the Tests Run
	Use Saboteurs to Test Your Testing
	Test State Coverage, Not Code Coverage
	Find Bugs Once
	Don't Use Manual Procedures and if there is, Make it Automated

## Delight Your Users

*When you enchant people, your goal is not to make money from them or to get them to do what you want, but to fill them with great delight. -- Guy Kawasaki*

Your goal as a developer is to delight users. That's why you're here. Your users are not particularly motivated by code. Instead, they have a business problem that needs solving within the contect of their objectives and budget. Their belief is that by working you/your team they'll be able to do this. In order to unearth their expectations, ask a simple question:

*How will you know that we've all been successful a month (or a year, or whatever) after this project is done?*

Don't forget to that there are other reasons that the software project runs. The software is only a means to these ends. After surfacing the underlying expectations, you need to,
* make sure everyone on the team is totally clear about these expectations
* think about which path forward moves closer to those expectations when making decisions
* critically analyze the user requirements in light of the expectations. Don't be afraid to make suggestions that change the requirement if you can demonstrate that they will move the project closer to the objective.
* continue to think about these expections as you progress through the project.

As you knowledge of the domain increases, you're better to able to make suggestions on other things that could be done to address the underlying business issues.

	Delight Users, Don't Just Deliver Code

If you want to delight your client, forge a relationship with them where you can actively help solve their problems. You're not actually a "software engineer" but a "problem solver". You solve problems.


## Pride and Prejudice

*You have delighte us long enough. -- Jane Austen, Pride and Prejudice*

You should not shirk from responsibility. Instead, you should rejoice in accepting challenges and in making your expertise well known. So,

	Sign Your Work

You shouldn't jealously defend your code against interlopers, by the tame token, you should treat other poeple's code with respect. 

	Do No Harm to Anyone
	Don't Enable Scumbags
	It's Your Life.
	Share it. Celebrate it. Build it.
	and HAVE FUN!


[[2022-08-19]]




