#programlama #programming 

#### Binding DRY rule
In the development process, there are times that you should violate DRY for several reasons, such as performance issues. This kind of thing occurs when you want to cache data to avoid repeating extensive operations or executions. The main trick is to deal with such problem is to localize your problem and keep it under that local area. So that, you do not expose your problem to the outer world, you isolate it.

```java
// performance issues
class Line {
	Point start,
	Point end,
	double length() { return start.distanceTo(end); }
}

class Line {
	private double length;
	private Point start;
	private Point end;


	public Line(Point start, Point end) {
		this.start = start;
		this.end = end;
		calculateLength();
	}

	// public
	void setStart(Point p) { this.start = p; calculateLength(); }
	void setEnd(Point p) { this.end = p; calculateLength(); }

	Point getStart() { return start; }
	Point getEnd() { return end; }

	double getLength() { return length; }


	private void calculateLength() {
		this.length = start.distanceTo(end);
	}
}
```


As you can see, coupling all the code that uses the structure to implementation of that module. Where possible, always use accessor functions to read and write attributes of objects. It will make it easier to add functionality in the future.


Sometimes, you need to represent the data you have in several formats which lead to have duplication in your code base. Some part of the duplication is inevitable but there are some ways to deal with the duplication. For instance, have some neutral format to represent your data. There are some tools to help you with that. These tools will generate documentation, mock APIs, functional tests, and API clients, the latter in a number of different languages. Using some schema to generate your code is a good way to deal with data duplication or keeping the data as a key/value structure and deal with the validation later.

## Orthogonality

The more loosely coupled your systems, the easier they are to reconfigure and reengineer.

There are several ways to maintain orthogonality:

* Keep your code decoupled
* Avoid global data
* Avoid similar functions


Get into the habit of being constantly critical of your code. Look for any opportunities to reorganize it to improve its structure and orthonogality which is called *refactoring*.


## Reversibility

Irreversibility, the mistake lies in assuming that any decision is cast in stone -and in not preparing for the contingencies that might arise. Instead of carving decisions in stone, think of them more as being written in the sand at the beach. A big wave can come along and wipe them out at any time.

So, keep in mind that there are no final decisions! What you can only do is make it easy to change. Break your code into components: even if you end up deploying them on a single massive server, this approach is a lot easier than taking a monolithic application and splitting it.

Forgo Following Fads! No one knows what the future may hold, especially not us! So enable your code to rock-n-roll: to "rock-on" when it can, to roll with the punches when it must.


## Tracer Build Development

*Tracer Build Development* is the term to illustrate the need for immediate feedback under actual conditions with a moving goal.


Tracer build development is relatively cheap solution to get an immediate system for the system from users. To get the same effect in code, look for something that gets you from a requirement to some aspect of the final system quickly, visibly, and repeatably.

Look for the important requirements, the ones that define the system. Look for the areas where you have doubts, and where you see the biggest risks. Then prioritize your development so that these are the first areas you code.

So, use tracer bullets to find the target. Tracer code is not disposable: you write it for keeps. It contains all the error checking, structuring, documentation and self-checking that any piece of production code has. It simply is not fully functional. However, one you achieved an end-to-end connection among the components of your system, you can check how close to the target you are, adjusting if necessary. Once you're on target, adding functionality is easy.

Tracer development is consistent with the idea that a project is never finished: there will always be changes required and functions to add. It is an incremental approach.


The tracer code approach has many advantages:

* Users get to see something working early.
* Developers build a structure to work in.
* You have an integration platform.
* You have something to demonstrate.
* You have a better feel for progress.

Tracer bullets show what you're hitting. This may not always be the target. You then adjust you aim until they're on target. That's the point. It's the same with tracer code. You use the technique in situations where you're not 100% certain of where you're going. Don't worry about that if you miss. A small body of code has low inertia - it is easy and quick to change.

There is an important distinction between prototyping and tracer code. Prototyping generates disposable code. Tracer code is lean but complete, and forms part of the skeleton of the final system. Think of prototyping as the reconnaissance and intelligence gathering that takes place before a single tracer bullet is fired.

[[2022-08-08]]