#gerçekler 

Realize that English is also another kind of programming language that you need to take care of. Write what you have in mind in the natural language as you would write code. It's also important to know you about your audience. What you have in mind should be reshaped with the one that your audience in their mind. For instance, if you would like to add/change/remove something, you have several reasons for that but depending on your audience, you can deliver/share the idea that is the most relevant to your audience. You do not need to add some details but relate ideas to your audience. The most important thing that you get from the experience is that you would get feedback to improve/reshape yourself.

Do not wait for questions, ask for them!


Express what you have in mind to your audience in a way that works for them. Refine it until is does. After knowing what your audience wants, deliver it.


Commenting to discussing why something is done, its purpose and its goal. Code shows how it's done, so commenting on this is redundant. (DRY)


## Summary
* Know what you want to say.
* Know your audience.
* Choose your moment.
* Choose a style (format).
* Make it look good.
* Involve your audience.
* Be a listener.
* Get back to people.
* Keep code and documentation together.


Good design is easier to change than bad design. A thing is well designed if it adapts to the people who use it. **ETC** principle, *Easier to Change*, that's it.

For instance, why is naming important? Good names make you understand the code easily. In order to change the code, you need to understand it first. That means you are in the ETC area again!


Don't forget that **ETC** is a value, not a rule that you should follow. When you make a decision between two things, in order to decide one over another you need to value them first. You can use **ETC** to value those things and go with it. You can also say that **ETC** is a guide that helps you choose between paths.


```ruby
def print_balance(account)
	printf "Debits:  %10.2f\n", account.debits
	printf "Credits: %10.2f\n", account.credits
	if account.fees < 0
		printf "Fees:     %10.2f-\n", -account.fees
	else
		printf "Fees:     %10.2f\n", account.fees
	end
	printf "             ---\n"
	if account.balance < 0
		printf "Balance: %10.2f-\n", -account.balance
	else
		printf "Balance: %10.f\n", account.balance
	end
end
```

```ruby
def format_amount(value)
	result = sprintf("%10.2f", value.abs)
	if value < 0
		result + "-"
	else
		result + " "
	end
end

def print_line(label, value)
	printf "%-9s%s\n", label, value
end

def report_line(label, amount)
	print_line(label + ":", format_amount(amount))
end

def print_balance(account)
	report_line("Debits", account.debit)
	report_line("Credits", account.credits)
	report_line("Fees", account.fees)
	print_line("", "-----")
	report_line("Balance", account.balance)
end
```