#productivity


Pareto efficiency may help you to understand the cost trade-off by comparing the features of the work.

Here is a few guidelines:

* **You've read and applied a lot of productivity advice**. The person who doesn't even keep a to-do list is probably far from the frontier. If you've read and tried everything, the chance that you're actually quite far from the frontier is lower.
* **When you look in your schedule, there aren't a lot of things you could easily cut**. If you do a timelog and find your day is mostly full of activities you wouldn't want to do less of, you're on a frontier. If you instead find it full of a lot of waste, there may be potential for easy wins.
* **Do efforts to do more inevitably cause setbacks in other areas of life?** Think back to when you have pursued new ambitions. If those always came at the cost of important things in your life, you're close to the frontier.


What results is often a game of whack-a-mole, where you invest more time in one thing and find yourself disappointed and surprised when you suddendly lose time for something else that mattered to you. You switch back and forth, feeling guilty that you can't get it all done.

* [ ] Talk with consultation.


https://www.scotthyoung.com/blog/2021/02/22/productivity-frontier/

## Working Harder in Bursts

It's natural to have cycles of productivity -- moments where you increase the intensity, get a lot done and then have your intensity fade back. This tends to work better when you can take advantage of the slower phase by taking time off to relax completely. But scheduled vacations don't always perfectly overlap with our effort.

Rather than resist this cycling, it makes sense to admit its existence and try to incorporate it into your plans. Daily, weekly and longer-term cycles of energy can be taken advantage of to make progress on projects. If you factor these into your goals, you can avoid feeling disappointed when heroic levels of effort prove unsustainable.

The exhortation to work harder doesn't escape the reality of the cycles. Eventually, we all hit a productive frontier and optimizing hits diminishing returns. This mandates making hard choices about what to work on, what to ignore and which values are central to your life and shouldn't be sacrificed.