#programming #programlama

# While You Are Coding

Conventional wisdon says that once o project is in the coding phase, the work is mostly mechanical, transcribing the design into executable statements. This attitude, it seems, is the single biggest reason that software projects fail, and many systems end up ugly, inefficient, poorly structured, unmaintainable, or just plain wrong. So, coding is not mechanical. There are decisions to be made every minute -- decisions that require careful thought and judgment if the resulting program is to enjoy a long, accurate and productive life. Even though it may be largely a routine after some time, but keeping your wits about you could well prevent a disaster.

## Listen to Your Lizard Brain

*Only human beings can look directly at something, have all the information they need to make an accurate prediction, perhaps even momentarily make the accurate prediction, and then say that it isn't so. -- Gavin de Becker, The Gift of Fear*

Instincts are simply a response to patterns packed into your nonconscious brain. Some are innate, other are learned through repetition. As you gain experience as a programmer, your brain is laying down layers of tacit knowledge: things that work, things that don't work, the probable causes of a type of error, all the things you notice throughout your days. This is the part of your brain that hits the *save file* commands when you stop to chat with someone, even when you don't realize that you're doing it. Instincts share one thing: they have no words. They make you feel, not think. When one is triggered, you get nervous, queasy, or feel like this is just too much work.

### Fear of the Blank Page

#cons

Everyone fears the empty screen, the lonely blinking cursor surrounded by a whole bunch of nothing. Starting a new project (or even a new module in an existing project) can be an unnerving experience. Many of us would prefer to put off making the initial commitment of starting. There are two problems that cause this. One problem is that your lizard brain is trying to tell you something; there's some kind of doubt lurking just below the surface of perception. When you feel a nagging doubt, it might be experience trying to speak to you. Heed it. You may not be able to put your finger on exactly what's wrong, but give it time and your doubts will probably crystallize into something more solid, something you can address. Let your distincts contribute to your performance. Another problem is a little more prosaic. You might simply be afraid that you'll make a mistake. Actually, that's reasonable when thinking in the way that you put a lot of yourself into the code; you can take errors in that code as reflections on your competence. Maybe there's an element of *imposter syndrome*. That may be beacuse of not abling to see your way through to the end, you'll get so far and then be forced to admit that you're lost.


### How To Talk Lizard

The techniques about listening to your instincsts and to your nonconscious, lizard brain are always the same but keep in mind that

	Lister to Your Inner Lizard

First, stop what you're doing. Give yourself a little time and space to let your brain organize itself. Stop thinking about the code, and do something that is fairly mindless for a while, away from the keyboard. Take a walk, chat with someone, just avoid getting back to the table for a while. Maybe, sleep on it. Let the ideas percolate up through the layers of your brain on their own: you can't force it. Eventually they may bubble up to the conscious level, and you have one of those a ha! moments. If that's not working, try externalizing the issue. Make doodles about the code you're writing, or explain it to a coworker, or to your rubber duck :)). Expose different parts of your brain to the issue, and see if any of them have a better handle on the thing that's troubling you. There may be sometimes come that you lose track of the number of conversations you will have had where you are explaining a problem to the other and suddenly went "Oh! Of course!" and break off to fix it. If these solutions are not working for you, at a final solution, just go for an action. You need to tell your brain that what you're about to do doesn't matter. You do that by prototyping.

### It's Playtime!

When reality is so hard on you, or you feel that reality seems to be hard on you, you can fool yourself. You may also call it as a hack but just keep this fancy word away to feel your powerlessness.  Tell yourself you need to prototype something. If you're facing a blank screen, then look for some aspect of the project that you want to explore. Do the following.

1. Write "I'm prototyping" on a sticky note, and stick in on the side of your screen.
2. Remind yourself that prototypes are meant to fail. And remind yourself that prototypes get thrown away, even if they don't fail. There is no downside to doing this.
3. In your empty editor buffer, create a comment describing in one sentence what you want to learn or do.
4. Start coding. 

If you start to have doubts, look at the sticky note. If, in the middle of coding, that nagging doubt suddenly crystallizes into a solid concern, then address it. If you get to the end of the experiment and you still feel uneasy, start again with the walk and the talk and the time off. However, as in experience of other pragmatic programmers, at some point during the first prototype you will be surprised to find yourself humming along with your music, enjoying the feeling of creating code. The nervousness will have evaporated, replaced by a feeling of urgency: let's get this done! At this stage, you know what to do. Delete all the prototype code, throw away the sticky note, and fill that empty editor buffer with bright, shiny new code.

### Not Just *Your* Code

Sometimes everyone has different instincts to you. Their decisions will be different but difference does not mean bad. You can read their code mechanically, slogging through it making notes on stuff that seems important. It's a chore, but it works. Or when you spot things done in a way that seems strange, jot it down. Continue doing this, and look for patterns. If you can see what drove them to write code that way, you may find that the job of understanding it becomes a lot easier. You'll be able consciously to apply the patterns that they applied tacitly. In the end, you might just learn something new along the way.

### Not Just Code

Learning to listen to your gut when coding is an important skill to foster. Besides, it applies to the bigger picture well. Sometimes a design just feels wrong, or some requirement makes you feel uneasy. Stop and analyze these feelings. If you're in a supportive environment, express them out loud. Explore them. The chances are that there's something lurking in that dark doorway. Listen to your instincts and avoid the problem before it jumps out at you.


## Programming by Coincidence

There are hundreds of traps waiting to catch us each day. You should be wary of drawing false conclusions. You should avoid programming by coincidence -- relying on luck and accidental successes -- in favor of *programming deliberatly*.

Coincidence here refers to the code that runs well without having any deliberate implementation. You write it and magically it works. But there may be times that what you write fails and at that time since you don't know why your code works at first, you don't know why it fails either. Assumptions also plays a big role in programming by coincidence. You should avoid that no matter what. So, don't assume it, prove it. Assumptions that aren't based on well-established facts are the bane of all projects.

	Don't Program by Coincidence

### How to Program Deliberately

You want to spend less time churning out code, catch and fix errors as early in the development cycle as possible, and create fewer errors to begin with. It helps if you can program deliberately:

* Always be aware of what you are doing.
* If you cannot explain the code in detail, you may be relying on coincidences.
* Don't code in the dark. If you're not sure why it works, you won't know why it fails.
* Proceed from a plan.
* Rely only on reliable things. Don't depend on assumptions.
* Document your assumptions.
* Don't just test your code, but test your assumptions as well. Don't guess, actually try it.
* Prioritize your effort. Spend time on the important aspects.
* Don't be a slave to history. Don't let existing code dictate future code.


## Refactoring

*Change and decay in all around I see... -- H.F.Lyte, Abide with Me*

Code needs to evolve; it's not a static thing. Since the common metaphor for software development is building constructions, you may have the idea that there are some fix parts in the code that must not be changed in the future. However, this metaphor is misleading. Rather than construction, software is more like *gardening* -- it is more organic than concrete. You constantly monitor the health fo the garden, and make adjustments as needed.

Rewriting, reworking, and re-architecting code is collectively known as *restructuring*. There is another subset of that activity that has become practiced as *refactoring* which is *the disciplined technique for restructuring an existing body of code, altering its internal structure without changing its external behavior.*

Refactoring in not a once-in-a-while activity but a day-to-day activity, taking low-risk small steps. Instead of a free-for-all, wholesale rewrite of the codebase, it's a targeted, precision approach to help keedp the code easy to change.

You refactor when you've learned something, when you understand something better than you did last year, yesterday, or even just ten minutes ago. Any number of things may cause code to qualify for refactoring.

* Duplication
* Nonorthogonal Design
* Outdated Knowledge
* Usage
* Performance
* The Tests Pass

Refactoring you code -- moving functionality around and updating earlier decisions -- is really an exercise in *pain management*. Let's face it, changing source code around can be pretty painful: it was working, maybe it's better to leave well enough alone. Many developers are reluctant to go in and re-open a piece of code just because it isn't quite right.

	Refactor Early, Refactor Often

Clearly, refactoring is an activity that needs to be undertaken slowly, deliberately, and carefully. 

1. Don't try to refactor and add functionality at the same time.
2. Make sure you have good tests before you begin refactoring. Run the tests as often as possible.
3. Take short, deliberate steps.

Manage the pain: if it hurts now, but is going to hrurt even more later, you might as well get it over with. Don't live with broken windows.



## Test to Code

	Testing is not about Finding Bugs

It is believed that the major benefits for testing happen when you think about and write the tests, not when you run them.

Start by imagining that you'd finished writing the function and now had to test it. How would you do that? Well, you'd want to use some test data, which probably means you want to work in a database you control. Then you hvae to think about how you'd populate the test data. So, you start by thinking about tests, and without writing a line of code, you can make discoveries about what you will write as a code.

	A Test is the First User of Your Code

Testing is vital feedback that guides your coding. If you think about testing boundary conditions and how that will work before you start coding, you may well find the patterns in the logic that'll simplify the function. If you think about the error conditions you'll need ot test, you'll structure your function accordingly.

There is a major benefit in test-driven development (TDD) for people just starting out with testing. If you follow the TDD workflow, you'll guarantee that you always have tests for your code. That means you'll always be thinking about your tests. 

	Build End-to-End, Not Top-Down or Bottom-Up

The only way to build software is incrementally. Build small pieces of end-to-end functionality, learning about the problem as you go. Apply this learning as you continue to flesh out the code, involve the customer at each step, and have them guide the process.

Tests can definitely help drive development. But, as with every drive, unless you have a destination in mind, you can end up going in circles.

Don't forget about unit testing to test each module independently. You like to think of unit testing as *testing against contract*. You write test cases that ensure that a given unit honors its contract. You test the module delivers the functionality it promises, over a wide range of test cases and boundary conditions.

	Desingn to Test

At the end of the debugging session, you need to formalize an ad-hoc test. If the code broke once, it is likely to break again. Don't just throw away the test you created; add it to the existing unit test arsenal.

All software you write *will* be tested -- if not by you and your team, then by the eventual users -- so you might as well plan on testing it thoroughly.

	Test Your Software, or Your Users Will

Testing, design, coding -- it's all programming.


## Property-Based Testing

	Use Property-Based Tests to Validate Your Assumptions

A unit test is the first client of you API. The same is true of property-based tests, but in a slightly different way. They make you think about your code in terms of invariants and contracts; you think about what must not change, and what must be true. This extra insight has magical effect on your code, removing edge cases and highlighting functions that leave data in an inconsistent state.

## Stay Safe Out There

*Good fences make good neighbors. -- Robert Frost, Mending Wall*

You do need to be paranoid, every day, when it comes to security and overcoming/correcting with mistakes.

	Keep It Simple and Minimize Attack Surfaces
	Apply Security Patches Quickly


## Naming Things

*The beginning of wisdom is to call things by their proper name. -- Confucius*

What's in a name? When you're programming, the answer is "everything"! What is your motivation to create something and give that name? This is a powerful question, because it atkes you out of the immediate problem-solving mindset and makes you look at the bigger picture. Your brain treats written words as something to be respected. You need to make sure the names you use live up to the meaning.

	When Giving a Name, Honor the Culture


Keep in mind that one word means one thing to one group and means different to another. It's important that everyone on the group knows what these words mean, and that they use them consistently. One way is to encourage a lot of communication. If everyone pair programs, and pairs switch frequently, then jargon will spread osmotically.

	Name Well; Rename When Needed

[[2022-08-17]]