#programlama #programming 

## Prototypes

Before you embark on any code-based prototyping, make sure that everyone understands that you are writing disposable code. Prototypes can be deceptively attractive to people who don't know that they are just prototypes. You must make it *very clear* that the code is disposable, incomplete, and unable to be completed.

It's easy to become misled by the apparent completeness of a demonstrated prototype, and project sponsors or management may insist on deploying the prototype if you don't set the right expectations.


* [ ] Scrum does not have this kind of prototype coding?


## Domain Languages

*The limits of language are the limits of one's world. - Ludwig Wittgenstein*

	Program Close to the Problem Domain.

There are two types of domain languages. One is *internal domain languages* which reside in the language they are written. Another is *external domain languages* which are converted into different languages and are executed.

Suggestion for selecting one of the domain languages is pretty simple. Don't spend more effort than you save. Writing a domain language adds some cost to your project, and you'll need to be convinced that there are offsetting savings (potentially in the long term).

In general, use off-the-shell external languages (such as YAML, JSON or CSV) if you can. If not, look at internal languages. Using external language is good only when there are cases your language will be written by the users of your application.

```c
#include <stdio.h>
#define ARG 1
#define NO_ARG 0

#define ARRAY_SIZE(A) (sizeof(A)/sizeof(A[0]))

/* Dummy handler functions */
void doSelectPen(int cmd, int arg) { printf("P %d\n", arg); }
void doPenUp(int cmd, int arg)     { printf("U\n"); }
void doPenDown(int cmd, int arg)   { printf("D\n"); }
void doPenDir(int cmd, int arg)    { printf("%c %d", cmd, arg); }

/* Because we want to make the language extendable, we'll make the parser
 * table driven. Each entry in the table contains the command letter, a
 * flag to say whether an argument is required and the name of the
 * routine to call to handle that particular command.
 */

typedef struct {
	char cmd;               /* the command letter */
	int hasArg;             /* does it take an argument */
	void (*func)(int, int); /* routine to call */
} Command;


static Command cmds[] = {
	{ 'P', ARG, doSelectPen },
	{ 'U', NO_ARG, doPenUp },
	{ 'D', NO_ARG, doPenDown },
	{ 'N', ARG, doPenDir },
	{ 'E', ARG, doPenDir },
	{ 'S', ARG, doPenDir },
	{ 'W', ARG, doPenDir }
};

Command *findCommand(int cmd) {
	int i;
	for (i = 0; i < ARRAY_SIZE(cmds); i++) {
		if (cmds[i].cmd == cmd)
			return cmds + i;
	}
	fprintf(stderr, "Unknown command '%c'\n", cmd);
	return 0;
}

int getArg(const char *buff, int *result) {
	return sscanf(buff, "%d", result) == 1;
}

int main(int argc, char **argv) {
	char buff[100];
	while (fgets(buff, sizeof(buff), stdin)) {
		Command *cmd = findCommand(*buff);

		if (cmd) {
			int arg = 0;
			if (cmd->hasArg && !getArg(buff+1, &arg)) {
				fprintf(stderr, "'%c' needs an argument\n", *buff);
				continue;
			}
			cmd->func(*buff, arg);
		}
	
	}
}


```




## Estimating

By learning to estimate, and by developing this skill to the point where you have an intuitive feel for the magnitudes of things, you will be able to show an apparent magical ability to determine their feasibility.

	Estimate to Avoid Surprises.

Accuracy is important in the communication. Depending on measurement unit that you select to explain your estimation, people have rough estimate about the deliverables in these units. For instance, 125 working days is equal to 25 weeks, is also equal to 6 months. Giving your estimation depending on these three different measurements changes perception of people about the delivery date.

All estimates are based on models of the problem. A basic estimation trick is about asking someone who's already done it.

The first part of any estimation exercise is building an understanding of what's being asked. As well as the accuracy issues discussed above, you need to have a grasp of the scope of the domain.

* Build a Model of the System
* Break the Model into Components
* Give Each Parameter a Value
* Calculate the Answers
* Keep Track of Your Estimating Prowess

When an estimate turns out wrong, don't just shrug and walk away - find out why. Maybe you chose some parameters that didn't match the reality of the problem. Maybe your model was wrong. Whatever the reason, take some time to uncover what happened. If you do, your next estimate will be better.

*Program Evaluation Review Technique* or **PERT** task has an *optimistic*, a *most likely*, and a *pessimistic* estimate. The tasks are arranged into a dependency network, and then you use some simple statistics to identify likely best and worst times for the overall project. However, it's not a realistic approach to a problem that you haven't solved before. **PERT** is just a formula that you write on a paper to estimate the project duration. In that formula, there is one parameter that is missing, which is your expertise, which affects all those calculations.

So, there is only one way to determine the timetable for a project is by gaining experience on that same project. This needn't be a paradox if you practice incremental development, repeating the following steps with very thin slices of functionality:

* Check requirements
* Analyze risks (and prioritize riskiest items earlier)
* Design, implement, integrate
* Validate with the users


Even though you may have a vague idea of how many iterations will be required, or how long they may be, after completing the coding and testing of the initial functionality and mark this as the end of the first iteration, you gained experience that can help you refine your initial guess on the number fo iterations and what can be included in each. These refinements gets better and betteer each time, and confidence in the schedule grows along with it. This kind of estimating is done during the team's review at the end of each iterative cycle.

That's also how the old joke says to eat an elephant: one bite at a time.

	Iterate the Schedule with the Code


What to say when asked for an estimate, you say *"I'll get back to you."*


A good challenge for you is to start keeping a log of your estimates. For each, track how accurate you turned out to be. If you error was greater than 50%, try to find out where your estimate went wrong.


# The Basic Tools

Tools amplify your talent. The better your tools, and the better you know how to use them, the more productive you can be. Expect to add to your toolbox regularly. Always be on the lookout for better ways of doing things. Let need drive your acquisitions. The tools will have become extensions of your hands.

## The Power of Plain Text

As Pragmatic Programmers, the base material isn't wood or iron, it's knowledge. Gathering requirements as knowledge and then expressing that knowledge in your designs, implementations, tests and documents can be made easier by storing in a *plain text*. With that, you give yourself the ability to manipulate knowledge, both manually and programmatically, using virtually every tool at your disposal.

	Keep Knowledge in Plain Text

Unix is famous for being designed around the philosophy of small, sharp tools, each intended to do one thing well. This philosophy is enabled by using a common underlying format - the line-oriented, plain-text file.


## Shell Games

A benefit of GUIs is **WYSIWYG** - what you see is what you get. The disadvantage is **WYSIAYG** - what you see is *all* you get.

	Use the Power of Command Shells

[[2022-08-10]]


