##programlama #programming 

## Juggling the Real World

*Things don't just happen; they are made to happen. -- John F. Kennedy*

In the old days, computers were not particularly flexible. You'd typically organize the way you would interact with them based on their limitations. Today, you may expect more: computers have to integrate into *our* world, not the other way around. The world is messy. All the things are constantly happening and changing. In order to have a program running in the world, you need to add a feature to the program such that it should be responsive to these changes.

### Events

An *event* represents the availability of information. It might come from the outside world or might be internal with respect to the program. Whatever the source, if you write applications that resopnd to events, and adjust what they do based on those events, those applications will work better in the real world. But how can you write these kind of applications? Without some kind of strategy, you'll quickly find yourself confused, and your applications will be a mess of tightly coupled code. There are four different strategies that help you:

1. Finite State Machines
2. The Observer Pattern
3. Publish/Subscribe
4. Reactive Programming and Streams

### Finite State Machines

Using an Finite State Machine (FSM) is trivially easy, and yet many developers shy away from them. There seems to be a belief that they are difficult, or that they only apply if you're working with hardware, or that you need to use some hard-to-understand library. None of these are true.

#### The Anatomy of a Pragmatic FSM

A state machine is basically just a specification of how to handle events. It consists of a set of states, one of which is the *current state*. For each state, we list the events that are significant to that state. For each of those events, we define the new current state of the system.

```ruby
TRANSITIONS = {
	initial: {header: :reading},
	reading: {data: :reading, trailer: :done},
}

state = :initial

while state != :done && state != :error
	msg = get_next_message()
	state = TRANSITIONS[state][msg.msg_type] || :error
end
```

#### Adding Actions

A pure FSM, such as the one you were looking at, is an event stream parser. Its only output is the final state. You can beef it up by adding actions that are triggered on certain transitions. General format for the FSM would look like this:

```ruby
TRANSITIONS = {
	# current       new state      action to take
	s0 : {
		elem0 => [ :s1, :a1 ],
		elemf => [ :s0, :a0 ],
	},

	s1 : {
		elem0 => [ :s0, :af ],
		elem1 => [ :s2, :a2 ],
		elemf => [ :s1, :a2 ],
	},

	s2 : {
		elemf => [ :s1, :a2 ],
	},
}
```

When using the FSM above, you use events rather than the states to trigger transitions. After each transition, you get a new state and the name of an action. You use the action namme to select the code to run before we go back around the loop.

This code is very basic, but it gets the job done. There are many other variants: the transition table could use anonymous functions or function pointers for the actions, you could wrap the code that implements the state machine in a separate class, with its own state, and so on.

#### State Machines Are a Start

State machines are underused by developers, and it's better for you to encourage yourself to look for opportunities to apply them. But they don't solve all the problems associated with events.

### The Observer Pattern

In the *observer pattern* we have a source of events, called the *observable* and a list of clients, the *observers*, who are interested in those events.

An observer registers its interest with the observable, typically by passing a reference to a function to be called. Subsequently, when the event occurs, the observable iterates down its list of observers and calls the function that each passed it. The event is given as a parameter to that call. Here is an example :

```ruby
module Terminator
	CALLBACKS = []

	def self.register(callback)
		CALLBACKS << callback
	end

	def self.exit(exit_status)
		CALLBACKS.each { |callback| callback.(exit_status) }
		exit!(exit_status)
	end
end

Terminator.register(-> (status) { puts "callback 1 sees #{status}" })
Terminator.register(-> (status) { puts "callback 2 sees #{status}" })

Terminator.exit(99)

```

There's not much code involved in creating an observable: you push a function reference onto a list, and then call those functions when the event occurs. This is a good example of when *not* to use a library.

The observer pattern has a problem: because each of the observers has to register with the observable, it introduces coupling. In addition, because in the typical implementation the callbacks are handled inline by the observable, syncronously, it can introduce performance bottlenecks.

### Publish/Subscribe

Publish/Subscribe (pubsub) generealizes the observer pattern, at the same time solving the problems of coupling and performance. In the pubsub model, we have *publishers* and *subscribers*. These are connected via channels. The channels are implemented in a seperate body of code: sometimes a library, sometimes a process, and sometimes a distributed infrastructure. All this implementation detail is hidden from your code.

Every channel has a name. Subscribers register interest in one or more of these named channels, and publishers write events to them. Unlike the observer pattern, the communication between the publisher and subscriber is handled outside your code, and is potentially asynchronous.

Pubsub is a good technology for decoupling the handling of asynchronous events. It allows code to be added and replaced, potentially while the application is running, without altering existing code. The downside is that it can be hard to see what is going in a system that uses pubsub heavily: you can't look at a publisher and immediately see which subscribers are involved with a particular message.

### Reactive Programming, Streams and Events

*Reactive programming* means that when some data are updated, the functions use the data as a parameter are also triggered. It's clear that events can be used to trigger reactions in code, but it isn't necessarily easy to plumb them in. So, you may need to know about what *streams* are.

Streams let you treat events as if they were a collection of data. It's as if you had a list of events, which got longer when new events arrive. The beauty of that is that you can treat streams just like any other collection: you can manipulate, combine, filter, and do all the other data-ish things you know so well. You can even combine event streams and regular collections. And streams can be asynchronous, which means you code get the opportunity to respond to events as they arrive.

```js
import * as Observable from 'rxjs'
import { logValues } from '../rxcommon/logger.js'

let animals = Observable.of("ant", "bee", "cat", "dog", "elk")
let ticker = Observable.interval(500)

let combined = Observable.zip(animals, ticker)

combined.subscribe(next => logValues(JSON.stringify(next)))

```

## Transforming Programming

*If you can't describe what you are doing as a process, you don't know what you are doing. -- Edwards Deming*

Transforming programming refers to the input-output relationship. The relationship is defined by several transformations which you also call as algorithms. Sometimes, when you think about writing a code, you forget to think about algorithms, instead focus on the classes, methods and their relationship. However, what you want to achieve is at the end of the day transforming one input to another and get what you want.

	Programming is About Code, But Programs Are About Data


### Finding Transformations

The easiest way to find the transformations is to start with the requirement and determine its inputs and outputs. Now you've defined the function representing the overall program. You can then find steps that lead you from input to output. This is a *top-down* approach.

This *top-down* approach is also useful when your programming language with a type of syntactic sugar, pipe operator. Using a pipeline means that you're automatically thinking in terms of transforming data; each time you see a pipe operator, you're actually seeing a place where data is flowing between one transformation and the next.

	Don't Hoard State; Pass It Around

Even though there is still a degree of coupling, in expert programmers' experience it's more manageable than the OO-style of command and control. And, if you're using a language with type checking, you'll get compile-time warnings when you try to connect two incompatible things.

### What About Error Handling?

If you can only build linear chains, how can you add all conditional logic that you need for error checking? There are many ways of doing this, but they all rely on a basic convention: you never pass raw values between transformations. Instead, you wrap them in a data structure which also tells you if the contained value is valid.

* First, choose a representation
* Then handle it inside each transformation
* Or handle it in the pipeline


Thinking of code as a series of (nested) transformations can be liberating approach to programming. It takes a while to get used to, but once you've developed the habit you'll find your code becomes cleaner, your functions shorter, and your designs flatter.


## Inheritance Tax

*You wanted a banana but what you got was a gorilla holding the banana and the entire jungle. -- Joe Armstrong*



Inheritance, at first, is a solution to the problem where you queue multiple types of events on the same list. That's why something called *prefix class* was used. Currently, inheritance is used for one of the two reasons: developers don't like typing, or they like types. Those who don't like typing save their fingers by using inheritance to add common functionality from a base class into child classes: class "User" and class "Product" are both subclasses of "ActiveRecord::Base". Those who like types use inheritance to express the relationship between classes: a "Car" is a-kind-of "Vehicle". Unfortunately, both kind of inheritance have problems.

### Problems Using Inheritance to Share Code

Inheritance is *coupling*. Not only is the child class coupled to the parent, the parent's parent, and so on, but the code *uses* the child is also coupled to all the ancestors. Here's an example.

```ruby
class Vehicle
	def initialize
		@speed = 0
	end

	def stop
		@speed = 0
	end

	def move_at(speed)
		@speed = speed
	end
end


class Car < Vehicle
	def info
		"I'm car driving at #{@speed}"
	end
end

my_ride = Car.new
my_ride.move_at(30)
```


When the developer in charge of "Vehicle" change the API, so "move_at" becomes "set_velocity", and the instance variable "@speed" becomes "@velocity". An API change is expected to break clients of "Vehicle" class. But the top-level is not: as far as it is concerned it is using a "Car".  What the "Car" class does in terms of implementation is not the corcern of the top-level code, but it still breaks. Similarly, the name of an instance variable is purely an internal implementation detail, but when "Vehicle" change is also (silently) breaks "Car". So much coupling.

	Don't Pay Inheritance Tax


### The Alternatives are Better

You can use three techniques that mean you should never need to use inheritance again: Interfaces and protocols, delegation, and mixins, traits, categories and protocol extensions

	Prefer Interfaces to Express Polymorphism
	Delegate to Services: Has-A Trumps Is-A
	Use Mixins to Share Functionality


## Configuration

*Let all your things have their places; let each part of your business have its time. -- Benjamin Franklin, Thirteen Virtues, autobiography*

When code relies on values that may change after the application has gone live, keep those values external to the app. When your application will run in different environments, and potentially for different customers, keep the environment- and customer-specific values outside the app. In this way, you're parameterizing your application; the code adapts to the places it runs.

	Parameterize Your App Using External Configuration

You will probably want to put in configuration data include:
* Credentials for external services (database, third party APIs, and so on)
* Logging levels and destinations
* Port, IP address, machine, and cluster names the app uses
* Environment-specific validation parameters
* Externally set parameters, such as tax rates
* Site-specific formatting details
* Licence keys

### Configuration-As-A-Service

You may would like to see the configuration files stored behind a service API. This has a number of benefits:
* Multiple applications can share configuration information, with authentication and access control limiting what each can see
* Configuration changes can be made globally
* The configuration data can be maintained via a speciliazed UI
* The configuration data becomes dynamic


