#programlama #programming 

# Before the Project

At the very beginning of a project, you and the team need to learn the requirements. Simply being told what to do or listening to users is not enough. When the impossible project comes up, pragmatic programmers like to turn their secret weapon, working together. By "working together", they mean solving problems together while coding. Virtually all "agile" projects begin with an ironic discussion of which proces and which tools they'll use. No matter how well thought out it is, and regardless of which "best practices" it includes, no method can replace *thinking*. You don't need any particular process or tool, what you need is *the essence of agility*.

With these critical issues sorted out *before* the project gets under way, you can be better positioned to avoid "analysis paralysis" and actually begin -- and complete -- your successful project.

## The Requirements Pit

*Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing left to add but when there is nothing left to take away... -- Antoine de St. Expuery, Wind, Sand, and Stars, 1939*

*Requirement gathering* does not work as it is wanted because they rarely lie on the surface. Normally, they're buried deep beneath layers of assumptions, misconceptions, and politics. Even worse, often they don't really exist at all.

	No One Knows Exactly What They Want

### The Requirements Myth

Requirements Myth comes from the fact that in the old days, people, who implemented some procedures in the environment where computers did faily limited capacity, were able to write their requirements beforehand thanks to this limit. However, this is not the real world. The real world is messy, conflicted and unknown. In that world, exact specifications of anything are rare, if not downright impossible. So, your job is to help people understand what they want and that's probably the most valuable attribute.

	Programmers Help People Understand What They Want

### Programming as Therapy

In general, initial statement of need is not an absolute requirement. The client may not realize this, but it is really an invitation to explore. When something is asked to be done, generally it's in a raw and not detailed requirement. You need to cast and mold the sculpture by asking detailed questions. Even though you annoy the client, it's better to ask question to have the information out and you will be on the safe side of the contract.

### Requirements Are a Process

When asking questions and getting some answers from the client, you start to have some tangible requirements. This kind of exploration help you get more feedback as the client plays with different solutions. This is the reality of all requirements gathering:

	Requirements Are Learned in a Feedback Loop

Sometimes, however, there are some cases in which you cannot express in words. In those cases, Pragmatic Programmers rely on the "is this what you mean?" school of feedback. They produce mockups and prototypes, and let the client play with them. Ideally the things they produce are flexible enough that you can change them during their disccussions with the client, letting them respond to "that isn't what I meant" with "so more like this?". The reality is that *all* of the work they do is actually some form of mockup. Even at the end of a project, they're still interpreting what their client wants. So they look at *all* of the project as a requirement gathering exercise. That's why they prefer short iterations; ones that end with direct client feedback. This keeps them on track, and makes sure that if they do go in the wrong direction, the amount of time lost is minimized.

	Work with a User to Think Like a User

Gathering feedback is also the time to start to build a rapport with your client base, learning their expectations and hopes for the system you are building.

	Don't Forget that Policy is Metadata

Implement the general case, with the policy information as an example of the type of thing the system needs to support.

When it comes to documentation of requirements, perhaps the only requirements documentation is working code. Other kind of documents that you share with your clients are simply mileposts to help guide the implementation process. However, requirements documents are not for clients, only for you to plan your implementation for the project. In these documents, you must not be too specific. Good requirements are abstract which doesn't mean to be vague but capture the underlying semantic invariants. So, requirements are not architecture, are not design nor are they the user interface. *They are need*.

Again, don't forget to get feedback and give feedback! To have a common ground with the client when dissussing the issues do

	Use a Project Glossary



## Solving Impossible Puzzles

*Gordius, the King of Phrygia, once tied a knot that no one could untie. It was said that whoever solved the riddle of the Gordian Knot would rule all of Asia. So along comes Alexander the Great, who chops the knot to bits with his sword. Just a little different interpretation of the requirements, that's all. And he did end up ruling most of Asia.*

The secret to solving a puzzle is to identify the real constraints, and find a solution therein. Some constraints are *absolute*; other are merely *preconceived notions*. Absolute ones must be honored, however distatesful or stupid they may appear to be. On the other hand, some apparent constraints may not be real constraints at all. 

	Don't Think Outside the Box -- Find the Box

If you cannot solve the problem which is seemed to be impossible to solve, then this is an ideal time to do something else for a while. Work on something different. Sleep on it. Your conscious brain is aware of the problem, but your conscious brain is really pretty dumb. So it's time to give your real brain, that amazing associative neural net that lurks below your consciousness, some space. You'll be amazed how often the answer will just pop into your head when you deliberately distract yourself. *To put it plainly, people who were distracted do better on a complex problem-solving task than people who put in conscious effort.*

A great way to feed your brain is to give it feedback on what works and what doesn't work as you do your daily job. You write them down on your engineering daybook.


## Working Together

*I've never met a human being who would want to read 17,000 pages of documentation, and if there was, I'd kill him to get him out of the gene pool. -- Joseph Costello, President of Cadence*

"Working with" is not just about asking questions, having discussions, and taking notes but about asking questions and having discussions *while you're actually coding*. That's what it is called as *pair programming* or *mob programming*. It is one of the practices of extreme programming that has become popular outside of XP itself. In pair programming, one developer operates the keyboard, and the other does not. Both work on the problem together, and can switch typing duties as needed. *Mob programming* is the extension of pair-programming in which not only developers but also other responsible people are included.

To get started with pair programming:
* Build the code, not your ego. It's not about who's brightest; all people have their moments, good and bad.
* Start small. Mob with only 4-5 people, or start with just a few pairs, in short sessions.
* Criticzie the code, not the person. "Let's look at this block" sounds much better than "you're wrong".
* Listen and try to understand others' viewpoints. Different isn't wrong.
* Conduct frequent retrospective to try and improve for next time.

However you go about it, keep one final piece of advice in your mind:

	Don't Go into the Code Alone

## The Essence of Agility

*You keep using that word, I do not think it means what you think it means. -- Inigo Montoya, THe Princess Bride*

*Agile* is an adjective: it's how you do something. Agility is your style, not you.

	Agile is not a Noun; Agile is how You do Things

Agility, both in the physical world and in software development, is all about responding to change, responding to the unknowns you encounter after you set out. So, there is no single plan you can follow when you develop software. Values are all about gathering and responding to feedback. They don't tell you what to do. They tell you what to look for when you decide for yourself what to do. Since decisions are always contextual, no fixed and static plan can survive in uncertainty.

Here is the recipe for working in an agile way:

* Work out where you are.
* Make the smallest meaningful step towards where you want to be.
* Evaluate where you end up, and fix anything you broke.

To make this whole agile thing work, you need to practice good design, because good design makes things easy to change. And if it's easy to change, you can adjust, at every level, without any hesitation. That is agility.


# Pragmatic Projects

As soon as you have more people involved in a project, you need to establish some ground rules and delegate parts of the project accordingly. You need to know these to manage a team and to have a good collaboration. The purpose of a software development method is to help people work together. You need to be sure about what benefits you and your team during the development. Of course none of that matters if you can't deliver software consistently and reliably. Ultimately, though, success is in the eye of the beholder. As a direct consequence of the rest, don't forget to sign your work, and take pride in what you do.

## Pragmatic Teams

There are advantages to being a pragmatic individual, but these advantages are multiplied manyfold if the individual is working on a pragmatic team. A pragmatic team is small, under 10-12 or so members. Members come and go rarely. Everyone knows everyone well, trusts each other, and depends on each other.

	Maintain Small, Stable Teams

* Have no broken windows [[2022-08-05]]
* Have no boiled frogs [[2022-08-05]]
* Schedule Your Knowledge Portfolio
	* Schedule Anything to Make It Happen
* Communicate Team Presence
* Don't Repeat Yourselves
* Team Tracer Bullets
	* Organize Full Functional Teams
* Automation
* Know When to Stop Adding Paint

## Coconuts Don't Cut It


[[2022-08-18]]



